In this video we're going to be looking at eloquent
API resource and see how to implement that in our
API questions endpoint.
So here in this structure
we get almost all columns that we have in our questions table
but actually we don't need all of them to get displayed in this endpoint.
So we need to kind of transform this structure to the new one.
And this how eloquent a resource come into play.
So eloquent API resources basically is a mechanism to transform our eloquent model into json responses.
It acts as a transformation layer that sits between our eloquent models and json responses that are
actually returned to our application's users.
Now before laravel version 5.5 you'll probably
use third party package call fractal for
data transformation. But start from version 5.5 laravel
introduce eloquent API resource which does almost
the same thing with fractal does but in the simple and elegant way.
All right let's head over to our terminal
then here
Let's create a resource API by saying php artisan make:resource
And here it's going to be question resource
all right
now let's open up the question resource
then inside
this file we'll find toArray method in this method we can specify which columns that we need to return.
Now let's open up question excerpt
blade php and let's see which columns that we need to expose
so here we'll need to have votes count status answers count
views and then URL title id
user created date and excerpt.
So let's go back to a question resource
and inside here let's define that columns
so here id
array this id title
this title. Note that the key and the
value shouldn't always be the same.
You could change the array key to any name if you like
But in my case I'll use the same name so that I don't need to make a lot of changes in the frontend
leter on. URL I think for the URL we can change to slug
All right
now we can head back to API questions controller
import the question resource at the top here
then instead this index method we can put
this question variable inside question resource
colon colon collection
let's save all changes.
Now we can head back to postmen and hit this endpoint again
there we go
Now we have an instructor that we can consume in the client.
Let's see the user
we still have unnecessary data. Here
for the user we will need maybe id
name url and avatar only.
So let's create another resource head back to terminal
and generate a brand new resource:
php artisan make:resource UserResource
let's pull up the user resource
then inside this toArray let's define
the columns that we need to return
id
url
name and avatar
Now we can switch back to question resource
and change the user's value with new user resource
this user.
So basically when you need to transform a single
object into a json structure then you need to do
this way.
So just instantiate the resource class and pass the model instance into it. But if you need to transform
a collection of models into a json structure
then you will need this way.
Just call the resource class followed by collection and pass the collection in. Let's save all changes
Back to our postman and hit this endpoint one more time.
Now we'll see the user only contains id, url, name and avatar. And I think
now we have a better structure for this response.
All right
That's if for this lesson
I'll see you in the next one.